# Master's Thesis "Dynamic Portfolio Optimization with Bayesian Neural Networks"

## Abstract 

In this paper, we consider Bayesian neural networks, stochastic neural networks that are trained using Bayesian inference, as a tool for dynamic portfolio optimization. We develop the deep learning architecture that utilizes the LSTM units and produces optimal portfolio allocations using the market prices of assets in the portfolio as training and prediction input and the estimated Sharoe ratio of a portfolio as an objective function. Several algorithms, recently proposed by the researchers: Bayes by Backprop, Stochastic Gradient Variational Bayes, and Flipout estimator, are considered to train the stochastic weights of the model. We consider various approaches to the use of samples outputted by the BNNs including basic model averaging and the alternatives developed by us: the selection based on the maximization of an estimated Sharpe ratio and the CVaR optimization using the output of a BNN. In backtesting experiment, we compare the performance of the portfolios managed by these BNNs against their counterpart with fully deterministic parameters, and against some traditional and Bayesian portfolio optimization models. Our results show the models trained using Bayesian inference outperform in terms of most considered metrics including Sharpe and Sortino ratios, maximum drawdown, our baselines. The alternative approaches to the aggregation of BNN-produced samples found to be especially successful given low transaction costs. In addition, we investigated how the structure of the portfolios managed with different versions of our framework changed throughout the evaluation period of the backtesting experiment and how the uncertainty of the BNNs changed in respect to the shifts in portfolio structure and the dynamics of the asset prices. The results of the analysis allow us to assume the relation between the mean of the output samples produced by the BNNs and their standard deviation.
